To try and repair a file system manually in Linux you can also use the fsck or
file system check command. Just make sure the file system isn't mounted. I won't
run this command, but this is what it would look like. If you run fsck on a
mounted partition, there's a high chance that it'll damage the file system. File
system repair isn't always a guaranteed fix, but it can help in most cases. Just
be nice to your hardware and it will be nice to you, in most cases. Another
thing to call out is that on in some versions of Linux, fsck actually runs on
your computer when you boot it to check for any issues and attempt to
auto-repair the file system. You can learn more about how to enable this and
about some advanced features that you can use with fsck in the next
supplementary reading. We've covered a lot of essential disk management and
filesystem concepts in this lesson. You learned how to partition a disk, how to
format a file system, and how to mount a file system. We even talked about how
you could repair a corrupt file system. In an IT support role, knowing how to
work with disks is essential. Your customers store their precious data on these
disks. And they don't want to lose those photos of their children, important
presentations, their collection of music, or whatever it may be. Knowing how to
work with disks and the data on them is a vital part of an IT role. Next, you
guessed it, it's time for another pair of Windows and Bash assessments. Take
your time with them and feel free to go back and review any material from this
module beforehand if you need to.