In earlier lesson, we learned that programs are the applications that we can run
like the Chrome web browser. Processes are programs that are running. We can
have lots of processes running for the same program like how we can have many
chrome windows open at once or lots of movies playing using one program. When we
launch a process, we're executing a program. And remember, a program is just
software. To calculate the information that our software contains, we need to
give it resources so that it can be run. When processes are run, they take up
hardware resources like CPU and RAM. Luckily, today's computers are powerful
enough to handle the processes that we use in our day-to-day activities, like
browsing the web, watching movies, etc.. But, sometimes this isn't enough,
sometimes a process is taking more resources than it's supposed to. Sometimes,
processes are unresponsive and freeze up our system making our entire computer
unresponsive. Well, we're going to talk about why this happens, and how we can
fix it in the upcoming lessons. But before we can talk about managing processes,
we have to understand how they work. When you open up an application like a word
processor, you're launching a process. That processes get in something called a
process ID to uniquely identify it from other processes. Our computer sees that
the process needs hardware resources to run. So our kernel makes decisions to
figure out what resources to give it. Then, in the blink of an eye, our computer
starts up a word processor and tadah, already to start working. This happens for
every process you launch yourself, and for every process you don't even know
who's running. Besides, the visible processes that we start, like our music
player or word processor, there are also not so visible processes running. These
are known as background processes, sometimes referred to as daemon processes.
Background processes are processes that run in the background. We don't really
see them, and we don't interact with them, but our system needs them to
function. They include processes like scheduling resources, logging, managing
networks, and more. When we take a look at all the processes running on our
system, you'll see what I'm talking about. In the next couple of lessons, we'll
talk about how processes get created and terminated. Then, we can start digging
into the details of process management. Process management is a vital skill in
IT support. You'll often find yourself troubleshooting issues with frozen
applications, slow applications, and more.