Welcome back. Now that we've learned how to navigate around the Windows and
Linux operating systems, let's start setting up our computer for use by other
people. As an IT support specialist, you'll be responsible for other people's
machines. People will depend on you to help set up their machines,
troubleshooting their issues, and so on. In this lesson, you'll learn how to
manage multiple accounts on one machine. You'll also learn about the different
permissions and access types, how to add and remove users, and the best
practices to use when managing multiple users. It's common for a computer to
have multiple users. On your home computer, you might have your parents,
siblings, or children using the same computer. Your town, library, school, or
other public places might also have computers with multiple users. Even though
these machines have multiple user accounts on them, all users on a computer are
isolated from others. This means that Kevin can't see Victor's files and
folders, and vice versa. There are two different types of users, standard users
and administrators. A standard user is one who is given access to a machine, but
has restricted access to do things like install software or change certain
settings. An administrator or admin is a user that has complete control over a
machine. They can view anyone's account, change and remove anyone on the
computer, and view every single file. You can have multiple administrators on a
machine as well. On your personal machine, you're the default administrator
because this gives you complete control over your system. After all, it is your
machine. But on a public computer, the administrator is someone who actually
runs and maintains the machine, like an IT support specialist, they can grant
access for other users, install software, change restricted system settings, and
perform other actions they deem appropriate. How terrible would it be if anyone
who is using a public computer could just install software? The computers would
be bloated, things would be out of place, and worst of all, they could be
infected with malicious software. Users are put together in groups according to
levels of access and permissions to carry out certain tasks. These tasks depend
on what the computer's administrator considers appropriate. An administrator
could give different access and settings based on the type of group a user is
in. Let's say you're an administrator for your home computer, which everyone in
the house uses. You put your parents in a group called Parents, and your kids in
a group called Children. You don't want either of them to be able to install
software, but you also want to add child safety restrictions on the children
group. As the administrator, you're able to specify different permissions for
both of these groups. So how do you differentiate what type of user you are, and
what groups you're in on Windows and Linux? Well hopefully, you'd know this if
you are an administrator of a computer. But if you don't, computers do a pretty
good job of telling you. In the next few lessons, we'll see how we can view user
and group information in Windows and Linux.