In an earlier lesson, we talked about the dangers of unplugging a USB device
without ejecting or unmounting it from the computer. You might have seen error
messages like this yourself, when the system alerts that you must safely eject
this flash drive. Why do we need to do this? When we copy over files to a flash
drive and we see that the file copied successfully, why canâ€™t we just unplug the
drive without unmounting or hitting the eject button in the OS? Turns out, it
may not be finished copying over that data. It's not just yelling at us for fun.
When we read or write something to a drive, we actually put it into a buffer, or
cache, first. A data buffer is a region of RAM that's used to temporarily store
data while it's being moved around. So when you copy something from your OS to
your USB drive, it first gets copied to a data buffer because RAM operates
faster than hard drives. So if you don't properly unmount a file system and give
your buffer enough time to finish moving data, you run the risk of data
corruption. Data corruption could happen for lots of reasons, other than
unsafely removing a disk drive. Let's say you're working on your computer and
the power to the building went out, causing your computer to suddenly shut off.
This kind of crash also causes data corruption. System failure or software bugs
can cause data corruption as well. The NTFS file system has some advanced
features built into it that can help minimize the danger of corruption, as well
as, try to recover when the file system does get damaged. One of these features,
through a process called journaling, logs changes made to a file metadata into a
log file called the NTFS log. By logging these changes, NTFS creates a history
of the actions it's taken. This means it can look at the log to see what the
current state of the file system should be. If a crash or bug does cause
corruption, the file system can initiate recovery process that will use that log
to make sure the system is in a consistent state. In addition to journaling,
NTFS and Windows implements something called self-healing. As you might guess
from the name, the self-healing mechanism makes changes to minor problems and
corruptions on the disk automatically in the background. It does this while
Windows is running so you don't need to perform a reboot. If you want to check
the status of the self-healing process on your computer, you can open up an
administrative command prompt and use the fsutil tool, like this. Fsutil repair
query, and I want to query my C drive. Finally, when things get really bad and
there's some serious or catastrophic disk corruption, like bad disk sectors,
disk failures, and more, you can turn to the NTFS check disk utility. The
recovery features NTFS has built into it mean that you don't usually need to run
check disc. But it's available in emergencies. To run check discs manually, you
can open up an administrator command prompt and type check disc onto the command
line. By default, check disc will run in read-only mode. So it'll give you a
report on the health of the disk, but won't make any modifications or repairs to
it. You can tell check disk to fix any problems it finds with the /F flag. You
can also specify the drive you want to check like this. chkdsk/F I'm going to
check my thumb drive, which is on the D. A lot of times, you won't need to run
check disc manually, though. If the operating system detects that some data's
been corrupted or that the disc has a bad sector, it'll set a bit in a metadata
file on the volume that indicates there's corruption. When the system boots, the
check disk utility will check this bit. If it's set, it'll execute and try to
repair the corruption by reconstructing the broken bits of the file system from
the NTFS log. As you can see, the Windows NTFS file system has some pretty
robust measures and features in place to recover and prevent corruption from
breaking your partitions. Next, let's have a look at how you can perform file
system repairs in Linux.