Now that we've covered listing and changing directories, let's learn how to add new directories. We can do this in the GUI in a super simple way. Just right-click, new, then folder, and bam, we have a new folder. Now, what if we wanted to do this in the CLI? In PowerShell, the command to make a new directory is called mkdir or make directory. Let's make a new directory called my_cool_folder and there it is. That was easy. What if we wanted to use spaces in our folder name instead of underscores? What do you think would happen if I did this instead? Mkdir my cool folder. That's an error. Mkdir is trying to interpret cool and folder as other parameters to the mkdir command. It doesn't understand those words as valid parameters. Turns out that our shell doesn't interpret spaces the way we do. So, we need to tell it explicitly that this folder name is one single thing. We can do this in a variety of ways. We can surround the name with quotes like, mkdir 'my cool folder', or we can escape to space by using the back tick character, mkdir my` cool` folder. Escaping characters is a pretty common concept when dealing with code. It means that the next character after the back tick should be treated literally. In our example, escaping the space tells the shell that the space after the back tick is part of our filename. While the back tick is the escape character in PowerShell, other shells and programming languages may use another character as an escape character. You'll see this in the next video.
